--- 
published: true
title: No foolin'
body_class: post
layout: post
summary: The Do Not Fool header, started as a joke, could help alleviate frustration and annoyance about April Fools' Day pranks on the web, but only if it gets implemented.
---

Today's October 1st, and I know what you're all thinking. "April Fools' Day is only six months away. What's the best way for me to come up with an internet prank that is clever and unexpected, but still respectful?"

Well, I can't help with the clever or unexpected parts, but I'm glad you're interested in not pissing off that portion of your visitors who just aren't interested in practical jokes, the ones who find April Fools' Day on the internet to be an annoying and frustrating waste of their time. They aren't the majority, but they're a sizeable percentage of internet users, so keeping them in mind is important when you're sneaking that unusual bit of obfuscated javascript or strange randomized functionality into your website's code for the day.

Six months ago, [Zbigniew Braniecki][1] released the [Do Not Fool extension for Firefox][2], which, when enabled, adds an experimental DNF header to every request your browser sends, telling the recipient that you don't wish to be fooled. While ostensibly a joke, this idea struck a chord with me, since every year on April 1st, I witness the gnashing of teeth and rending of garments and hear the pitiable wails of numerous people who are forced to deal with dozens or hundreds of online pranks when all they want to do is get some work done.

Enabling the DNF header in your browser is a good first step, but only if prank authors write code to respect that header. In order to make it easier to do so, I put together [a few bits of proof-of-concept code implementing DNF header detection in PHP and Python][3] and tossed them up on github, where they've sat, unloved, because who thinks about April Fools Day between April 2nd and maybe sometime mid-March?

This coming Spring, however, I want things to be different. I hope that if you're thinking of maybe putting together an April Fools' Day prank for your website, you'll check out my code and consider including it, or maybe even contributing your own version in your language or framework of choice. And if not, help spread the word, so that by next April, maybe the pranks all across the web will be just a bit more respectful to those who wish that April 1st was just another day.

 [1]: http://diary.braniecki.net/ "Zbigniew Braniecki's website"
 [2]: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/do-not-fool/ "The Do Not Fool add-on for Firefox"
 [3]: https://github.com/rfreebern/Do-Not-Fool/ "Do-Not-Fool, a code repository by rfreebern on Github"
